TCL(transaction control language)
----------------------------------
def
----
The process of combining all related operations into a single unit and executing them according to the rule "either all operations should be succeed or none should be succeed". is called Transaction management.

A transaction is considered a single unit of work and follows the principle

"either all or none"

example: Funds transfer.

Consider a money transfer process between two accounts.

1. Debit amount from the sender's account
2.Credit amount into the receiver's account.

Both operations should be executed as a single transaction.

If the amount is debited from the sender's account successfully, but crediting the recover's account fails. It may lead to the data inconsistency problems.

There are 2 types of transactions such as:

1.Local Transactions
-----------------------
In local transactions, all operations of a transaction are executed in the same database.

example: Funds transfer from one account to another account where both accounts belongs to the same bank is called local transactions.

2.Global transactions
------------------------
In global transactions, operations of a transaction are executed on different databases.
 
example: Funds transfer from one account to another account where both accounts belongs to the different banks is called global transactions. 


ACID Properties:#notes
-----------------------
1. Atomicity: All or nothing
2. Consistency: The database remains in a valid state
3. Isolation: Transactions do not interface with each other
4. Durability: Committed changes are permanent(time)

TCL Commands
--------------
1.Commmit
-----------

What is locking
----------------
Locking is a mechanism used by the database to control concurrent access data.
It ensures that multiple users accessing the same data simultaneously the database maintains consistency and integrity and prevent conflicts.

1. Shared lock
---------------
Def: A shared lock allows a transaction to read data.
Multiple transactions can hold a shared lock on the same row.
No transaction can modify the row until all shared locks are released.

Characteristics: 
------------------
Read only
Multiple users can read simultaneously
Blocks updates and deletes
 
2. Exclusive lock:
------------------
Def: An exclusive lock allows a transaction to modify data.
While an exclusive lock exists.
No other transaction can read using a locking read or modify that row.
Only the transaction holding the lock can update/delete the data.

Characteristics
----------------
Used for INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE
Only one Exclusive Lock at a time
Blocks both reads (locking reads) and writes

3. Intent Lock
----------------
An Intent Lock is a table-level lock that indicates a transaction intends to place row-level locks.
It helps MySQL quickly determine whether a table-level lock conflicts with existing row locks.
Users do not usually create Intent locks manually. InnoDB manages them automatically.

Real-life example:
Imagine a library:
Shared Lock- Many students can read the same book at the same time.
Exclusive Lock - One student borrows the book, so nobody else can read or borrow it until it is returned. 
Intent lock-The librarian marks that someone is about to read or borrow books from a shelf, helping coordinate access without checking every book individually. 